Rework Logging in General Troubleshooting section (#3539)
mattermost/docs: source/install/troubleshooting.rst

-----------------------
Some of these suggestions can be done directly, and others may need consultation from your network administrator.

> Take a Look at the Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review Mattermost Logs
```

Reviewer: Propose being more explicit that these are Mattermost-service related logs per the section that follows (as opposed to database logs or proxy logs).

Also, propose using `review` instead of `take a look`, though I'm only 1/5 and is a subjective preference.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This article covers accessing the numerous logs created by Mattermost applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can access logs for Mattermost and use them for troubleshooting. These steps assume that you have System Admin permissions. 
```

> You can access logs for Mattermost and use them for troubleshooting. These steps assume that you have System Admin permissions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access logs for Mattermost and use them for troubleshooting. These steps assume that you have `System Admin permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/help/getting-started/managing-members.html#system-admin>`_. 
```

Reviewer: For someone new, they may not know what permissions System Admin has, so we can link to a doc that offers this information.

**Mattermost Server**

> 1. In the *System Console* go to *Environment > Logging* and note down the path to the *File Log Directory*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and note down the path to the **File Log Directory**.
```

Reviewer 2: Just confirming whether these changes have been committed as I'm not able to see them on my view.

Author: should be solved, please confirm

Reviewer 2: Yep, looks fine to me. :)

> 2. The server log file is called *mattermost.log* and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The server log file is called ``mattermost.log`` and can be opened with a text editor or shared directly.
```
How does one get to the server log file, and what type of sharing would be done (and how?).

Author: that is explained under `more`. the path can be set individually. you can share it by copy paste in a mail for example.

Reviewer 2: The numbering of this section isn't rendering correctly - would you be open to committing the suggestion and reviewing the numbering? It's showing as a single line in the file view.

Reviewer 2: <img width="951" alt="Screen Shot 2020-04-25 at 11 23 00" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4223530/80276203-4e73ca00-86e7-11ea-8f65-b6f485418a62.png">

.. Note::

>    Make sure to verify **logging to a file** is enabled by confirming **System Console > Environment > Logging > Output logs to file** is set to **true**. Open **System Console > Environment > Logging** and set File Log Level to **DEBUG**. Make sure to revert to **INFO** after troubleshooting to save disk space. Logging can be set to output plain text or JSON here as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that logging is enabled by navigating to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and confirming that **Output logs to file** is set to **true**. 
```
I wonder if this should be moved to above step 1, and then this "Open **System Console > Environment > Logging** and set **File Log Level** to **DEBUG**. Make sure to revert to **INFO** after troubleshooting to save disk space. Logging can be set to output plain text or JSON here as well." is the content in the note?

Reviewer 3: I think that makes more sense, it seems like part of the process, however, I am wondering if we need to be more explicit in stating, once you do this, then try to replicate the issue again, so that it is logged at the debug level.

> If filesystem access is not possible the current server logs can be found and copied from the *System Console* under *Reporting > Server Logs*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If filesystem access is not possible, navigate to **System Console > Reporting > Server Logs** to locate the current system logs which can be copied to a file.
```
Should this perhaps be higher up in the section? What is the difference between these logs and the logs in the filesystem?

Author: AFAIK it depends on settings. Both can be adjusted separately.

> `More <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#logging>`_

Reviewer 2: This may work better as a sentence to add some context.

Author: like 
> You can find more on logging [here](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#logging).

?

Reviewer: +1, propose adding "settings" to indicate it's about the setting specifically - `You can find more on logging settings <here>.`

**Mattermost Desktop App**

The desktop app log file can be found in the user directory:

> - **Windows:** `%userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Mattermost\logs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Windows:** ``%userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Mattermost\logs``
```

> - **Linux:** `~/.local/share/Mattermsot/logs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Linux:** ``~/.local/share/Mattermost/logs``
```

**Mattermost Browser App**

> The browser based app does not produce additional log files. If the app has to be debugged use the development tools integrated into the browser in use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The browser-based app does not produce additional log files. If the app has to be debugged use the development tools integrated in your browser.
```

**Mattermost Push Notification Service**

> Logging for the Mattermost Push Notification Service is handled via system log with logger and is appended to `/var/log/syslog`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Logging for the Mattermost Push Notification Service is handled via system log with logger and is appended to ``/var/log/syslog``.
```
Is "logger" a program or service? Are there steps needed to set this up?

> Take a Look at the Environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review Mattermost Environment
```

Reviewer: Same feedback/proposal from the first sub-section heading

-----------------------
Some of these suggestions can be done directly, and others may need consultation from your network administrator.

Review Mattermost Logs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can access logs for Mattermost and use them for troubleshooting. These steps assume that you have `System Admin permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/help/getting-started/managing-members.html#system-admin>`_. 

**Mattermost Server**

#. Verify that logging is enabled by navigating to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and confirming that **Output logs to file** is set to **true**.

> #. In the *System Console* go to *Environment > Logging* and note down the path to the *File Log Directory*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and note down the path to the **File Log Directory**.
```

> #. Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and note down the path to the **File Log Directory**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging** and note down the path to the **File Log Directory**.
```
The user should already be in this menu, as per the previous step, I wonder if we can restructure this as a single line and not a numbered list. Here's an example: 

"Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging**, confirm that **Output logs to file** is set to **true**, and note down the path to the **File Log Directory**." 

Then the next sentence will be "The server log file is called ``mattermost.log`` and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly."

Let me know what you think.

Author: I created it the redundant way so help people extract partial information from the doc. e.g. if I am solely looking for the log file path I'd have to read more. I'm 0/5 on this and I like your suggestion. WDYT @justinegeffen

Reviewer 2: That makes sense. 

If it's two separate items then a bullet point for each would work better than steps as it's not a set process. Perhaps a preceding sentence for each might work as well. 

Like:
"- Ensure that log files are being created: Navigate to **System Console > Environment > Logging**, confirm that Output logs to file is set to **true**.

- You can obtain the path for the log files in **System Console > Environment > Logging > File Log Directory**. 

The resulting server log file is called ``mattermost.log`` and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly."

I know there's a section with the path to the log files. Perhaps add it here so it states:
"The resulting server log file is called ``mattermost.log``, located in <insert paths info> and can be opened with..."

I'm 3/5 as I don't have context around customer behavior in this instance. Totally up to you!

Author: sounds good, will do:

> - Ensure that log files are being created: Navigate to System Console > Environment > Logging, confirm that Output logs to file is set to true.
> - You can obtain the path for the log files in System Console > Environment > Logging > File Log Directory.
> 
> The resulting server log file is called mattermost.log and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly.

> #. You can obtain the path for the log files in **System Console > Environment > Logging > File Log Directory**.

Reviewer 2: This isn't rendering correctly (one is a number and one is just the #). For a bulleted list, try using "-", that could resolve the issue. :)

> #. The server log file is called *mattermost.log* and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. The server log file is called ``mattermost.log`` and can be opened with a standard text editor or shared directly.
```

.. Note::

>    For a more complete log open **System Console > Environment > Logging** and set **File Log Level** to **DEBUG**, then replicate the issue to have it logged again. Make sure to revert to **INFO** after troubleshooting to save disk space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a more complete log open **System Console > Environment > Logging** and set **File Log Level** to **DEBUG**, then replicate the issue to have it logged again. Make sure to revert to **INFO** after troubleshooting to save disk space.
```

If filesystem access is not possible, navigate to **System Console > Reporting > Server Logs** to locate the current system logs which can be copied to a file.

> You can find more on logging settings `here <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#logging>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more on logging settings `here <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#logging>`_.
```

**Mattermost Desktop App**

The desktop app log file can be found in the user directory:

- **Windows:** ``%userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Mattermost\logs``
- **Linux:** ``~/.local/share/Mattermost/logs``

**Mattermost Browser App**

> The browser-based app does not produce additional log files. If the app has to be debugged use the development tools integrated in your browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The browser-based app does not produce additional log files. If the app has to be debugged, use the development tools integrated in your browser.
```

    - Is the problem occurring only for a user who was recently added to the environment, such as a new employee?
    - Do differences exist between the users who are affected and the users who are not affected?

> You can also search the error messages online - existing solutions can often be applied.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also search the error messages online - existing solutions can often be applied.
```
Wondering if we could rather link to the forum which may very well have the solution?

Author: This is taken from the original Troubleshooting section. I'm 0/5 on this.

Reviewer 3: I think we need to be a bit more explicit here as well.  "You can also search the error messages online.  Existing solutions from our forum <link> and other forum sites can often be found and applied."  0/5 on my suggestion, but at least we are pointing the reader towards more specified resources then "online".

Author: It sais `If, after following these guidelines, you're still facing the issue, visit the `Troubleshooting Forum` two sentences later, would that not be double information? 

I'd remove the following two sentences and only leave the one suggested above, but include the link. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: One suggestion is to make the changes and we can see they fit in contextually? Easier to see it written out and go from there.

Author: That should already be the case, no?

> You can also search the error messages online. Existing solutions from our `forum <https://forum.mattermost.org/t/how-to-use-the-troubleshooting-forum/150>`_ and other forum sites can often be found and applied.

Reviewer 2: Ah awesome, I didn't see that. :) Do we have a list of other forum sites that we'd recommend? If not, perhaps we can remove it?

Author: afaik there is no such list. I'm fine removing it.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @faase! It's looking good. :)
